From the hfsplus man page:

       "HFS+,  also  known  as  the Macintosh Extended Format, was
       introduced by Apple Computer in 1998 with the  release  of
       MacOS 8.1.  It contains many improvements over the old HFS
       file system, most notably the ability to  allocate  up  to
       2^64  blocks,  resulting in much more efficient storage of
       many small files on large disks."

This kio slave lets you read an HFS+ partition from konqueror
or any other KDE file dialogue.  It uses hfsplus tools so you will
need these installed for it to work.

TO INSTALL

Read the INSTALL file.


NOTES

Just enter mac:/ into Konqueror and you should see the contents of
your MacOS partition.  Actually you'll probably get an error message
saying you havn't specified the right partition.  Enter something
like mac:/?dev=/dev/hda2 to specify the partition (if you don't know
which partition MacOS is on you can probably guess by changing hda2 to
hda3 and so on or use the print command from mac-fdisk.  The partition
will be used the next time so you don't have to specify it each time.

Hfsplus tools let you see the file and copy data from the HFS+
partition but not to copy data to it or change the filenames or such like.

HFS+ actually keeps two files for every one you see (called forks), a
resource fork and a data fork.  The default copy mode when you're
copying files across to you native drive is raw data which means it
just copies the data.  Text files are copied in text mode (same as raw
format but changes the line endings to be Unix friendly and gets rid
of some funny extra characters - strongly advised for text files)
unless you specify otherwise.  You can also copy the files across in
Mac Binary II format or specify text or raw format with another query:
mac:/myfile?mode=b or mac:/myfile?mode=t  See man hpcopy for more.

Note that you need permissions to read your HFS+ partition.  How you
get this depends on your distribution, do a ls -l /dev/hdaX on it to
see.  Under Debian you have to be in the disk group (just add your
username to the end of the entry in /etc/group).

File types are done with matching the HFS+ type and application label
and then by extentions.  See the source for the exact matching that
happens and feel free to suggest improvements.

For some reason some directories in MacOS end in a funny tall f
character.  This seems to confuse hfstools.

You can't easiily use the command line tools while you are browsing
using kio-mac in Konqueror.  Konqueror continuously refreshes it's
view which mean hpmount is being called every few seconds.  Click on
Konqueror's home button before using the tools yourself on the command
line.

Hidden files are now shown all the time.  Apparantly Konqueror only
considers files with a dot at the front of the name to be hidden which
is a bit system dependant.

Please e-mail me with any comments, problems and success stories:
Jonathan Riddell, jr@jriddell.org
